.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2020 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd November 12, 2020
.Dt ZPOOL-NOALLOC 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm zpool-noalloc
.Nd Disables allocations from one or more devices in a ZFS storage pool.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zpool
.Cm noalloc
.Op Fl u
.Ar pool
.Ar device
.Op Ar device Ns ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Xo
.Nm zpool
.Cm noalloc
.Op Fl u
.Ar pool
.Ar device
.Op Ar device Ns ...
.Xc
Disables allocation from the specified vdevs by marking them as non-allocatable.
The main use-case of this feature is to prevent all types of allocations in vdevs
that are to be removed in the near feature so their removals finish faster.
Another less frequent use-case is redirecting allocations away from degraded or
faulty vdevs.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl u, -unmark
Re-enable allocations for the specified marked devices.
.El
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zpool-remove 8 ,
.Xr zpool 8
